190118

###Knowledge not shared is wasted

This has been my mantra for some time now. It means exactly what is says. One could have the most useful ideas and wealth of wisdom and knowledge, yet if they are not disseminated, then they are, for most general purposes, useless. 

Over the last couple years I’ve looked at my own notebooks and writing, and realized that there is value therein that others could use. A large portion of the work therein are consolidated primarily from other sources, and thus allowing even a portion of them to become public would be no less than paying forward what had been gained. This is how the internet, and institutions before it, have been built and rely on for their sustained function. Beyond this, practically all social institutions rely on this fact. Why do we send students off to university for 2-10 years? So that they can absorb knowledge and later use that investment to return value back to the society of which they had come, in whatever form that may be. 

Again this isn’t self inflating, but rather in observance of the broader sociological principals of information transfer and production that, again, has elevated humanity to its current status. In a moral sense, it’s ones duty, should they wish to return the favors that had been given to them at any point in their own life (though the phrasing “any point” downplays the extensive involvement of the millions and billions that have effected them). 

In other words, this relies on the assumption that one is not selfish with the knowledge they have gained, and that they gain it not only for their own benefit, but rather for the benefit of others as well. This need not be mutually exclusive. Selfish altruism results in similar outcomes to that of pure altruism, and is likely a more realistic and easily subscribed philosophy ( [more on this]() ).   

With this brief explanation in mind, I have been cultivating a pedagogic mindset, as well as developing resources such as this notebook to aid in this wonderful transfer of what ever minuscule amount I may be able to contribute to the total knowledge share. I hope it as elevated others as it has elevated myself. 


 
